# clu

> Program designed to create the perfect world.

Clu is a migration tool, intended to make cross company migrations easier.

## Usage

Running a migration `clu run-migration -d --migration-defintion migration.toml --results results.toml --work-directory work-dir`.

`migration.toml` is the file described below. 
`results.toml` is written by `clu` that contains all the PR's created.
`work-dir` is a directory where all the code is checked out.

After that runs, you can run `clu check-status --results results.toml`

This will make `clu` output markdown with the current status of the PR's located in
`results.toml`.

## The Design

Clu requires a TOML file to describe the migrations. Lets review an example
(this example can be generated by `clu init`)

```toml
[targets]
dummy-repo = 'git@github.com:ethankhall/dummy-repo.git'

[checkout]
branch-name = 'ethankhall/foo-example'
pre-flight = '/usr/bin/true'

[pr]
title = 'Example Title'
description = '''
This is a TOML file

So you can add newlines between the PR's'''

[[steps]]
name = 'Example'
migration-script = 'examples/example-migration.sh'
```

### Targets

The `targets` block contains a map of "pretty names" to "repo path". The pretty name is only used
for reporting, and the path is any valid url to be passed to `git clone <url>`.

The names are required to be unique.

### Checkout

`branch-name` is the name of the branch that will be created and pushed to GitHub. This should be
garenteed to be unique. You should use something like `2021-03-21-upgrade-terraform-to-13`. This
is because if the branch already exists, the migration *WILL FAIL*.

`pre-flight` is a command that will be run to see if the migration needs to be run. This should
be used to help you. Instead of having to manage if a migration is done, and update the list of repos
you should write a script that checks the target repo is already migrated. If this command exists
non-zero the migration for that repo will be skipped.

If you always want the migration to be run, use `/usr/bin/true` which will always return 0.

### PR

`title` is the title of the Pull Request.

`description` is the body that will be put into the PR body. You should include what users should
do with this PR and who to contact with questions. Because this input is TOML, you can use a multiline
string. See the [TOML website](https://toml.io/en/) for more details.

### Steps

This is a list, you can have multiple steps per migration. The PR will only be created after all
steps complete successfully.

`name` is the name of the step, only used for output
`migration-script` is the path to a script that will do the updates for the step of the migration.

When the script it run, the working directory will be the checkout of the repo to work on. If you need
to access files or other details relative to the `migration-script` you could use
`DIR="$( cd "$( dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" )" &> /dev/null && pwd )"` to get the directory of the script.
`DIR` is the directory that contains the script being run.

When the script is complete, if there are any changes that are left uncommited, the step *WILL FAIL*.
This is a design choice, if there are changes left uncommitted should they be? Instead of having this
ambiguity, the migration will just fail. If you commit the changes OR run `git clean -dfx` then everything
will succeed.

Whenever your dont making changes, *you* must commit them. If you want to have a git message that's very
useful, you should use a file to commit the message by using `git commit -F message.txt`